does size really matter
[Music]
well of course it does but exactly how
much size really depends on your goals
and in this video I want to teach you
about how to maximize your muscle
hypertrophy through periodization in my
last video I discussed a great method of
sequencing your training phases for
sports periodization this is excellent
if your goal is to Peak for performance
for a specific date but what if your
goal is Aesthetics based where it
doesn't matter how strong or fast or how
powerful you are like a bodybuilder for
example it makes no sense for a
bodybuilder to finish their competition
prep with the peaking phase where the
training volume and exercise variation
is reduced with the intention of
minimizing fatigue to maximize specific
competition readiness
for this reason a common thought amongst
bodybuilders is that periodization
doesn't work for bodybuilding well
here's the thing the correct wording of
that statement should be
Sports purization doesn't work for
bodybuilding
and I would agree with that but it
doesn't mean that bodybuilders wouldn't
benefit from splitting up their training
into phases where they focus on
prioritizing one physical quality at a
time if you're a beginner in the first
phase any athlete of any sport would
benefit from a phase of motor learning
where you learn the most efficient
lifting techniques on all the major
movement patterns that you'll be
performing throughout the prep from here
a common approach amongst high-level
bodybuilders could be to perform a
strength phase to potentiate their
hypertrophy phase just doing my workout
Tuesday's arms and back and then move on
to a cutting phase to optimize their
conditioning coming into competition
each of these phases would be paired
with the appropriate nutritional
requirements to enhance the muscle
building or fat loss phases in the
training this type of planning isn't
linear conjugate or undulating
periodization but it doesn't mean that
it's not periodization it's just a
different type of periodization not only
is the training being periodized but so
is the nutrition periodization is
long-term planning and once we
understand that the purpose of
periodization is simply how we can best
sequence our training phases over the
long term to achieve the best training
outcomes regardless of the goal we can
realize that anyone working towards any
goal can benefit from periodization
boom